Jeremie Miller
@jeremie
@lockerproject

lockerproject.org

A p2p Digital Self with telehash

Protocols are a strange loop... created by software developers, from experiences of sofware developers, who create experiences for other developers, etc. 

For example: HTTP 

"There are many parts of the original dream which are not yet implemented"... TBL

History:

NAT -> plantations of slave IP addresses which can only be clients. 

DNS: Started out free and accessible, now tiered protocol design allowed complete control & commercialization

Web became a separated system server group & client group.

P2P, let everyone be a server --> all used for = filesharing and Skype

Good Experiences

Advent of an API as a protocol... return of the mainframe...? 

Started with radically distributed systems, and reenslaved ourselves...

... ... ...
... ... ... 

Every point that we go through for sharing centrally in the cloud, we go through different terms of service, and that resists the flow of our information.

I am my stuff. and this stuff is everywhere. Only happening at the services discression, and access can go away unexpectedly.

More and more data that they share, the more that space becomes their personal space, and people (ads) intrude into their personal space.

Popular tools are good for everyone, but great for noone. 


Assertion: We need to be able to move data directly peer to peer. Not through a service

How do we do this? Lots of work. 

Tried Distributed hash tables... Kademlia implementation (Simplicity + scale)

Need DHT in order to have peer to peer.

There's a paper that proves how it scales.

Kademlia is a connection of nodes. Not the application on top of it. 

Enter TeleHash... Minimal wiring to get data. 

Switches send Telexes (UDP JSON)... 

Pub/Sub network ( Subscribe to listen to other publishes). 


Telehash is not a content Transport, there is no trust (anonymous peers), and no identity (just hashes)...

Now The Locker Project (open source project around personal data).

Have your data in a place where you can control. Have your social identifiers and connect P2P

"Has to gather your things and make it awesome."

home temp / biometrics / gather them 


node.js core, local web services (js, python, php, ruby), http & JSON... platform first for utility

discover other hashes... 

/LockerProject/Locker

"The Unhosted Project" -> similar in want to give people place to publish... and doesn't solve the addressing.

Firewalls and NATs still a problem

Freenet / Chord / Pastry -> What did you find lacking? over Katalina. Smallest

Related: Managerie White Paper

......

Who am I? Get IP address : Port and ask seeds for self id, and gets other peers. 

Things that talk to the internet and mirror that down... 
Populate collections (a common model)

Synclets pull data from services and aggregate them together. 

Search through content of any link anyone has shared with you.

Keep data on mongo locally...and on json on disk.

......

Tackled social media as low hanging fruit for social media to get people interested. 

......

Right now it's hard to setup... Developer only. 
Goal is to ship a VM that anyone can run / self-executable. 

Team of ~ 10 people, and 20 external contributers for own company Singly
 
